README.md, before:

# xrayai

## DESCRIPTION

                       _:=:_
                .-""""`_'='_`""""-.
               (`,-- -`\   /`- --,`)
               / //`-_--| |--_-`\\ \
              / /(_-_  _| |_  _-_)\ \
             / / (_- __ \ / __ -_) \ \
            / /  (_ -_ - ^ - _- _)  \ \
           / /   (_-  _ /=\ _ - _)   \ \
          / /     (_ -.':=:'. -_)     \ \
         (`;`     (_-'  :=:  '-_)     `;`)
          \\.   jgs __  :=:  __       .//
           \\\    .'  `':=:'`  '.    ///

                     ,---.  ,--. 
                    /  O  \ |  | 
                   |  .-.  ||  | 
                   |  | |  ||  | 
                   `--' `--'`--' 
     ,-----.,--.  ,--.,------. ,-----.,--. ,--. 
    '  .--./|  '--'  ||  .---''  .--./|  .'   / 
    |  |    |  .--.  ||  `--, |  |    |  .   '  
    '  '--'\|  |  |  ||  `---.'  '--'\|  |\   \ 
     `-----'`--'  `--'`------' `-----'`--' '--' 

A computer aided diagnosis (CAD) system for chest x-rays.

Khandaker Ahmed
Venkata Krishna Parupalli Naga Sanjeeva
Xinlu Tu
Hammad Usmani
Sol Won

This software creates a sophisticated and state of the art artificial intelligence to diagnose 14 diseases that can be accessed from a simple web application.

The following are included diagnoses,
['Atelectasis', 'Cardiomegaly', 'Consolidation', 'Edema', 'Effusion', 'Emphysema', 'Fibrosis', 'Hernia', 'Infiltration', 'Mass', 'Nodule', 'Pleural_Thickening', 'Pneumonia', 'Pneumothorax']

As of the most recent update, you can also find a live demo here, http://34.74.114.235/

## INSTALLATION

### Reference: https://github.com/mtobeiyf/keras-flask-deploy-webapp

- Clone the repo
- Install requirements.txt
- Install tensorflow-model-server
```
sudo echo "deb http://storage.googleapis.com/tensorflow-serving-apt stable tensorflow-model-server tensorflow-model-server-universal" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/tensorflow-serving.list && \
curl https://storage.googleapis.com/tensorflow-serving-apt/tensorflow-serving.release.pub.gpg | sudo apt-key add -

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install tensorflow-model-server
tensorflow_model_server --version TensorFlow ModelServer: 2.0.0+dev.sha.b5a11f1 TensorFlow Library: 2.0.0
``` 

Use the following command as an alternative install for tensorflow-model-server
```
echo "deb http://storage.googleapis.com/tensorflow-serving-apt stable tensorflow-model-server tensorflow-model-server-universal" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/tensorflow-serving.list && curl https://storage.googleapis.com/tensorflow-serving-apt/tensorflow-serving.release.pub.gpg | apt-key add -
apt update
apt-get install tensorflow-model-server
```

- Start tensorflow-model-server
```
tensorflow_model_server --model_base_path=[Path_to_the_repo]/xrayai-server/classifier --rest_api_port=9000 --model_name=xrayai
e.g. 
tensorflow_model_server --model_base_path=/home/user/Desktop/OMSCS/DVA/xrayai-server/classifier --rest_api_port=9000 --model_name=xrayai
``` 
- Ensure that the tensorflow_model_server is running at: http://localhost:9000/v1/models/xrayai:predict
- Start the app with:
``` 
python app.py
``` 
- Check [http://localhost](http://localhost/)

### Ensemble Artificial Intelligence
The included model in the repository can be used as a proof of concept while the full capabilities can be used with an ensemble. To achieve this, we have provided the Tensorflow Saved Model links below. Please also remember to use the Tensorflow Serve Model Configuration File included named `tensorflow-serving.conf`

- `delopy.zip` : Includes VGG16, ResNet, and MobileNet architectures. We only recommend the VGG variant from this file
  - https://drive.google.com/open?id=1zHfh8FZI8oYQd6hlIh4QRUnwgyy05qi3
- `xrayai_Dense.zip` : Includs the DenseNet architecture using transfer learning and trained on the NIH dataset. We recommend using this in an ensemble
  - https://drive.google.com/open?id=1SX8Bg-m2qXZtyFJ7GjBwgQaYlPGym9Vo
- `xrayai_NasM.zip` : Similar to the DenseNet model but for NasM
  - https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TmCHblcWo_lf98H-GejEhfFwRrgh-i7e

### SystemD Service Files
The following are examples of systemd service files to ensure we can run the X-Ray AI in a production enviornment that starts on boot and restarts if it exits due to an error or any other reason.
We place the files into /lib/systemd/system/ or your standard directory for systemd *.service files.

Please note that you will need to customize the paths in these files. After creating them and placing them in the right directory, run the following commands for setup in systemd as root.
```
systemctl start xrayaipython
systemctl start xrayaitensorflow
systemctl enable xrayaipython
systemctl enable xrayaitensorflow
```
`xrayaipython.service`
```
[Unit]
Description=Runs the Python Flask API

[Service]
Type=simple
ExecStart=/opt/bitnami/python/bin/python /home/husmani/xrayai-server/app.py
Restart=always

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

`xrayaitensorflow.service`
```
[Unit]
Description=Run the Chest X-Ray artificial intelligence created through tensorflow and hosted using tensorflow server

[Service]
Type=simple
Restart=always
ExecStart=/opt/bitnami/tensorflow-serving/bazel-bin/tensorflow_serving/model_servers/tensorflow_model_server --model_base_path=/home/husmani/xrayai-server/classifier --rest_api_port=9000 --model_name=xrayai

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```
## EXECUTION & DEMO

Visit the site http://34.74.114.235/ and submit one of the test cases included in the demo. Please note that there is a file upload limit.
![Demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xinlutu2/xrayai-server/master/img/demo.png)

Commit message:

Update to include reference to Google Colab

README.md, after:

# xrayai

## DESCRIPTION

                       _:=:_
                .-""""`_'='_`""""-.
               (`,-- -`\   /`- --,`)
               / //`-_--| |--_-`\\ \
              / /(_-_  _| |_  _-_)\ \
             / / (_- __ \ / __ -_) \ \
            / /  (_ -_ - ^ - _- _)  \ \
           / /   (_-  _ /=\ _ - _)   \ \
          / /     (_ -.':=:'. -_)     \ \
         (`;`     (_-'  :=:  '-_)     `;`)
          \\.   jgs __  :=:  __       .//
           \\\    .'  `':=:'`  '.    ///

                     ,---.  ,--. 
                    /  O  \ |  | 
                   |  .-.  ||  | 
                   |  | |  ||  | 
                   `--' `--'`--' 
     ,-----.,--.  ,--.,------. ,-----.,--. ,--. 
    '  .--./|  '--'  ||  .---''  .--./|  .'   / 
    |  |    |  .--.  ||  `--, |  |    |  .   '  
    '  '--'\|  |  |  ||  `---.'  '--'\|  |\   \ 
     `-----'`--'  `--'`------' `-----'`--' '--' 

A computer aided diagnosis (CAD) system for chest x-rays.

Khandaker Ahmed
Venkata Krishna Parupalli Naga Sanjeeva
Xinlu Tu
Hammad Usmani
Sol Won

This software creates a sophisticated and state of the art artificial intelligence to diagnose 14 diseases that can be accessed from a simple web application.

The following are included diagnoses,
['Atelectasis', 'Cardiomegaly', 'Consolidation', 'Edema', 'Effusion', 'Emphysema', 'Fibrosis', 'Hernia', 'Infiltration', 'Mass', 'Nodule', 'Pleural_Thickening', 'Pneumonia', 'Pneumothorax']

As of the most recent update, you can also find a live demo here, http://34.74.114.235/

## INSTALLATION

### Reference: https://github.com/mtobeiyf/keras-flask-deploy-webapp

- Clone the repo
- Install requirements.txt
- Install tensorflow-model-server
```
sudo echo "deb http://storage.googleapis.com/tensorflow-serving-apt stable tensorflow-model-server tensorflow-model-server-universal" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/tensorflow-serving.list && \
curl https://storage.googleapis.com/tensorflow-serving-apt/tensorflow-serving.release.pub.gpg | sudo apt-key add -

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install tensorflow-model-server
tensorflow_model_server --version TensorFlow ModelServer: 2.0.0+dev.sha.b5a11f1 TensorFlow Library: 2.0.0
``` 

Use the following command as an alternative install for tensorflow-model-server
```
echo "deb http://storage.googleapis.com/tensorflow-serving-apt stable tensorflow-model-server tensorflow-model-server-universal" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/tensorflow-serving.list && curl https://storage.googleapis.com/tensorflow-serving-apt/tensorflow-serving.release.pub.gpg | apt-key add -
apt update
apt-get install tensorflow-model-server
```

- Start tensorflow-model-server
```
tensorflow_model_server --model_base_path=[Path_to_the_repo]/xrayai-server/classifier --rest_api_port=9000 --model_name=xrayai
e.g. 
tensorflow_model_server --model_base_path=/home/user/Desktop/OMSCS/DVA/xrayai-server/classifier --rest_api_port=9000 --model_name=xrayai
``` 
- Ensure that the tensorflow_model_server is running at: http://localhost:9000/v1/models/xrayai:predict
- Start the app with:
``` 
python app.py
``` 
- Check [http://localhost](http://localhost/)

### Ensemble Artificial Intelligence
The included model in the repository can be used as a proof of concept while the full capabilities can be used with an ensemble. To achieve this, we have provided the Tensorflow Saved Model links below. Please also remember to use the Tensorflow Serve Model Configuration File included named `tensorflow-serving.conf`

- `delopy.zip` : Includes VGG16, ResNet, and MobileNet architectures. We only recommend the VGG variant from this file
  - https://drive.google.com/open?id=1zHfh8FZI8oYQd6hlIh4QRUnwgyy05qi3
- `xrayai_Dense.zip` : Includs the DenseNet architecture using transfer learning and trained on the NIH dataset. We recommend using this in an ensemble
  - https://drive.google.com/open?id=1SX8Bg-m2qXZtyFJ7GjBwgQaYlPGym9Vo
- `xrayai_NasM.zip` : Similar to the DenseNet model but for NasM
  - https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TmCHblcWo_lf98H-GejEhfFwRrgh-i7e
  
These models were created and exported using Google Colab. A complete example notebook is located in the repository.

### SystemD Service Files
The following are examples of systemd service files to ensure we can run the X-Ray AI in a production enviornment that starts on boot and restarts if it exits due to an error or any other reason.
We place the files into /lib/systemd/system/ or your standard directory for systemd *.service files.

Please note that you will need to customize the paths in these files. After creating them and placing them in the right directory, run the following commands for setup in systemd as root.
```
systemctl start xrayaipython
systemctl start xrayaitensorflow
systemctl enable xrayaipython
systemctl enable xrayaitensorflow
```
`xrayaipython.service`
```
[Unit]
Description=Runs the Python Flask API

[Service]
Type=simple
ExecStart=/opt/bitnami/python/bin/python /home/husmani/xrayai-server/app.py
Restart=always

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

`xrayaitensorflow.service`
```
[Unit]
Description=Run the Chest X-Ray artificial intelligence created through tensorflow and hosted using tensorflow server

[Service]
Type=simple
Restart=always
ExecStart=/opt/bitnami/tensorflow-serving/bazel-bin/tensorflow_serving/model_servers/tensorflow_model_server --model_base_path=/home/husmani/xrayai-server/classifier --rest_api_port=9000 --model_name=xrayai

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```
## EXECUTION & DEMO

Visit the site http://34.74.114.235/ and submit one of the test cases included in the demo. Please note that there is a file upload limit.
![Demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xinlutu2/xrayai-server/master/img/demo.png)
